In today’s world,
there’s a constant flood of information
coming at you from just about everywhere.
It’s good to stay informed.
The problem is that not everything
you hear or see is true.
Some of it is misinformation:
opinions,
half-truths,
conspiracy theories,
and even outright lies dressed up as facts.
Misinformation isn’t just inaccurate;
it can also be dangerous!
It can cause people to make bad decisions
or to ignore important safety warnings.
So how can you protect yourself
from misinformation?
At Job 12:11,
the Bible says
that we should “test out words
as the tongue tastes food.”
When you taste something new,
you can spit it out if it’s bad
before you swallow it.
In the same way,
before you believe a story
or repeat it to others,
you should put it to the test.
Here are two ways you can do that.
Test number one:
Consider the source of the information.
Do you know where
the information originally came from?
Don’t be fooled by appearances.
An online post may look official.
But behind the scenes,
the author may just be repeating rumors
or spreading his own opinions.
And with something
called deepfake technology,
dishonest people can even do things
like swap the faces and voices in a video
to create a completely fake report.
So even if a story is widely repeated,
follow the Bible’s advice
of 1 Thessalonians 5:21
and “make sure of all things.”
Compare what you hear with other sources
to verify the information.
Test number two:
Consider the purpose of a story.
Is it really to present the facts
or to promote just one side of an issue?
Some reports spin the news,
emphasizing certain details
and downplaying others
to sway your opinion.
Some reports may even be conspiracy theories
—claims that certain groups
have secretly plotted
to cause a tragic event or crisis.
The purpose is often
to promote prejudice and hatred.
Such theories have a way
of spreading like wildfire.
But they are just that
—theories.
And sometimes
they’re based on deliberate lies,
so don’t be fooled.
But before you spend time and effort
testing everything you hear,
there’s an important question
you need to ask yourself,
‘Is the story really that important to me?’
Splashy headlines can make
even trivial news items seem important.
But if you follow
every bit of information that pops up,
you just may hit information overload
or get stressed out about reports
that are more speculation than actual news.
If you feel overwhelmed,
it may help to turn off some notifications
and just search for the information you need
when you need it.
Of course, even if you’re not online,
misinformation can spread by word of mouth.
Even well-meaning friends
may just repeat what they’ve heard.
So whether you read something,
hear it from another person,
or it’s forwarded to you by a friend,
remember the words of Proverbs 14:15:
“The naive person believes every word,
but the shrewd one ponders each step.”
In other words,
don’t just believe everything you hear
without thinking it through.
But that doesn’t mean
we can’t trust anything or anyone.
If you hear something
that makes you anxious or suspicious,
go to someone you trust
—someone with more experience
who can help you
evaluate the truth behind it.
By taking the time
to evaluate information sources,
by considering the purpose
behind the reports you hear,
and by not getting bogged down
with news you don’t really need,
you’ll be well-informed
instead of misinformed,
and that will help you
make good decisions and stay safe.